Add blog post about Sentiment classification for Customer Service automation (#273)
huggingface/blog: supercharge-customer-service-with-nlp.md

thumbnail: /blog/assets/61_supercharged_customer_service_with_nlp/thumbnail.png
---

<h1>
  	Supercharged Customer Service with Hugging Face
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published April 25, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/supercharge-customer-service-with-nlp.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/patrickvonplaten">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1584435275418-5dfcb1aada6d0311fd3d5448.jpeg?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>patrickvonplaten</code>
            <span class="fullname">Patrick von Platen</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/patrickvonplaten/notebooks/blob/master/Using_%F0%9F%A4%97_Transformers_and_%F0%9F%A4%97_Datasets_filter_customer_feedback_filtering.ipynb">
    <img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/>
</a>

In this notebook, we will simulate a real-world use

> case and try to solve it using tools of the Hugging Face ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
case and use tools from the Hugging Face ecosystem to address it.
```

We strongly recommend using this notebook as a template/example to
solve **your** real-world use case.

## Defining Task, Dataset & Model

Before jumping into the actual coding part, it's important to have a clear definition of the use case that you would like to automate or partly automate.
A clear definition of the use case helps identify the most suitable task, dataset to use, and model to apply for your use case.

### Defining your NLP task

> Alright, let's dive into a hypothetical problem we wish to save using models of natural language processing. Let's assume we are selling a product and our customer support team receives thousands of messages including feedback, complaints, and questions which ideally should all be answered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alright, let's dive into a hypothetical problem we wish to solve using natural language processing models. Let's assume we are selling a product and our customer support team receives thousands of messages including feedback, complaints, and questions which ideally should all be answered.
```

Quickly, it becomes obvious that customer support is by no means able to reply to every message. Thus, we decide to only respond

> to the most unsatisfied customers and set the goal of answering to 100% of very unsatisfied messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the most unsatisfied customers and aim to answer 100% of those messages, as these are likely the most urgent compared to the other neutral and positive messages.
```

Assuming that a) messages of very unsatisfied customers represent only a fraction of all messages and b) that we can filter out unsatisfied messages in an automated way, customer support should be able to reach this goal.

To filter out unsatisfied messages in an automated way, we plan on applying natural language processing technologies.

The first step is to map our use case - *filtering out unsatisfied messages* - to a natural language processing task.

> To do so, it is recommended to go over all available tasks on the Hugging Face Hub [here](https://huggingface.co/tasks). If you are not sure which task applies to your use case, you should click on all of the different tasks to better understand them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [tasks page on the Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/tasks) is a great place to get started to see which task best fits a given scenario. Each task has a detailed description and potential use cases.

> The task of finding messages of the most unsatisfied customers can be modeled as a text classification task: Classify a message into *very unsatisfied*, *unsatisfied*, *neutral*, *satisfied*, **or** *very satisfied*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The task of finding messages of the most unsatisfied customers can be modeled as a text classification task: Classify a message into one of the following 5 categories: *very unsatisfied*, *unsatisfied*, *neutral*, *satisfied*, **or** *very satisfied*.
```

### Finding suitable datasets

Having decided on the task, next, we should find the data the model will be trained on. This is usually more important for the performance of your use case than picking the right model architecture.
Keep in mind that a model is **only as good as the data it has been trained on**. Thus, we should be very careful when curating and/or selecting the dataset.

Since we consider the hypothetical use case of *filtering out unsatisfied messages*, let's look into what datasets are available.

For your real-world use case, it is **very likely** that you have internal data that best represents the actual data your NLP system is supposed to handle. Therefore, you should use such internal data to train your NLP system.

> It can nevertheless be helpful to also include publicly available to improve the generalizability of your model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can nevertheless be helpful to also include publicly available data to improve the generalizability of your model.
```

Let's take a look at all available Datasets on the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/datasets). On the left side, you can filter the datasets according to *Task Categories* as well as *Tasks* which are more specific. Our use case corresponds to *Text Classification* -> *Sentiment Analysis* so let's select [these filters](https://huggingface.co/datasets?task_categories=task_categories:text-classification&task_ids=task_ids:sentiment-classification&sort=downloads). We are left with *ca.* 80 datasets at the time of writing this notebook. Two aspects should be evaluated when picking a dataset:

-   **Quality**: Is the dataset of high quality? More specifically: Does the data correspond to the data you expect to deal with in your use case? Is the data diverse, unbiased, ...?
-   **Size**: How big is the dataset? Usually, one can safely say the bigger the dataset, the better.

> It's quite tricky to evaluate whether a dataset is of high quality efficiently, and it's even more challenging to know whether and how the dataset is biased.

Reviewer: Want to link to the Datasets Measurement Tool here? I think it doesn't derail the blog post and provides a bit of visibility to the tool.

-   [Tweet eval](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tweet_eval)
-   [Yelp review full](https://huggingface.co/datasets/yelp_review_full)
-   [Amazon reviews multi](https://huggingface.co/datasets/amazon_reviews_multi)

Now we can inspect those datasets in more detail by reading through the dataset card, which ideally should give all relevant and important information. In addition, the [dataset viewer](https://huggingface.co/datasets/glue/viewer/cola/test) is an incredibly powerful tool to inspect whether the data suits your use case.

Let's quickly go over the dataset cards of the models above:

-   *GLUE* is a collection of small datasets that primarily serve to compare new model architectures for researchers. The datasets are too small and don't correspond enough to our use case.
-   *Amazon polarity* is a huge and well-suited dataset for customer feedback since the data deals with customer reviews. However, it only has binary labels (positive/negative), whereas we are looking for more granularity in the sentiment classification.
-   *Tweet eval* uses different emojis as labels that cannot easily be mapped to a scale going from unsatisfied to satisfied.

> -   *Amazon reviews multi* seems to be the most suitable dataset here. We have sentiment labels ranging from 1-5 corresponding to 1-5 stars on Amazon. These labels can be mapped to *very unsatisfied, neutral, satisfied, very satisfied*. We have inspected some examples on [the dataset viewer](https://huggingface.co/datasets/amazon_reviews_multi/viewer/en/train) that the reviews look very similar to how customer feedback reviews would look, so this seems like a very good dataset. In addition, each review has a `product_category` label, so we could even go as far as to only use reviews of a product category corresponding to the one we are working in. The dataset is multi-lingual, but we are just interested in the English version for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   *Amazon reviews multi* seems to be the most suitable dataset here. We have sentiment labels ranging from 1-5 corresponding to 1-5 stars on Amazon. These labels can be mapped to *very unsatisfied, neutral, satisfied, very satisfied*. We have inspected some examples on [the dataset viewer](https://huggingface.co/datasets/amazon_reviews_multi/viewer/en/train) to verify that the reviews look very similar to actual customer feedback reviews, so this seems like a very good dataset. In addition, each review has a `product_category` label, so we could even go as far as to only use reviews of a product category corresponding to the one we are working in. The dataset is multi-lingual, but we are just interested in the English version for now.
```

-   *Yelp review full* looks like a very suitable dataset. It's large and contains product reviews and sentiment labels from 1 to 5. Sadly, the dataset viewer is not working here, and the dataset card is also relatively sparse, requiring some more time to inspect the dataset. At this point, we should read the paper, but given the time constraint of this blog post, we'll choose to go for *Amazon reviews multi*.
As a conclusion, let's focus on the [*Amazon reviews multi*](https://huggingface.co/datasets/amazon_reviews_multi) dataset considering all training examples.

> As a final note, we recommend making use of Hub's dataset functionality even when working with private datasets. The Hugging Face Hub, Transformers, and Datasets are flawlessly integrated, which makes it trivial to use them in combination when training models.

Reviewer: > flawlessly

lol

In addition, the Hugging Face Hub offers:

-   [A dataset viewer for every dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/amazon_reviews_multi)
-   [Easy demoing of every model using widgets](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/main#whats-a-widget)
-   [Private and Public models](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/adding-a-model#creating-a-repository)
-   [Git version control for repositories](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/main#whats-a-repository)
-   [Highest security mechanisms](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security)

### Finding a suitable model

Having decided on the task and the dataset that best describes our use case, we can now look into choosing a model to be used.

> Most likely, you will have to fine-tune a pretrained model for your use case, but it is worth checking whether they are already fine-tuned models on the Hub that perform well. In this case, you might reach a higher performance by just continuing to fine-tune such a model on your dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most likely, you will have to fine-tune a pretrained model for your own use case, but it is worth checking whether the hub already has suitable fine-tuned models. In this case, you might reach a higher performance by just continuing to fine-tune such a model on your dataset.
```

Let's take a look at all models that have been fine-tuned on Amazon Reviews Multi. You can find the list of models on the bottom right corner - clicking on *Browse models trained on this dataset* you can see [a list of all models fine-tuned on the dataset that are publicly available](https://huggingface.co/models?dataset=dataset:amazon_reviews_multi). Note that we are only interested in the English version of the dataset because our customer feedback will only be in English. Most of the most downloaded models are trained on the multi-lingual version of the dataset and those that don't seem to be multi-lingual have very little information or poor performance. At this point,

> it might be more sensible to fine-tune a purely pretrained model instead of using one of the already fine-tuned ones shown in the link above.

Reviewer: It could be a slight detour, but maybe an explanation of why to use a pretrained model vs fine-tuning an existing one.

We still haven't found the perfect way of comparing different model checkpoints to each other at Hugging Face, but we provide some resources that are worth looking into:

-   The [model summary](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_summary) gives a short overview of different model architectures.
-   A task-specific search on the Hugging Face Hub, *e.g.* [a search on text-classification models](https://huggingface.co/models), shows you the most downloaded checkpoints which is also an indication of how well those checkpoints perform.

However, both of the above resources are currently suboptimal. The model summary is not always kept up to date by the authors. The speed at which new model architectures are released and old model architectures become outdated makes it extremely difficult to have an up-to-date summary of all model architectures.
Similarly, it doesn't necessarily mean that the most downloaded model checkpoint is the best one. E.g. [`bert-base-cased`](https://huggingface.co/bert-base-uncased) is amongst the most downloaded model checkpoints but is not the best performing checkpoint anymore.

> The best is often to try out various model architectures, stay up to date with new model architectures by following experts in the field, and check well-known leaderboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best approach is to try out various model architectures, stay up to date with new model architectures by following experts in the field, and check well-known leaderboards.
```

            num_rows: 5000
        })
    })
```

We have 200,000 training examples as well as 5000 validation and test examples. This sounds reasonable for training! We're only really interested in the input being the `"review_body"` column and the target being the `"starts"` column.

Let's check out a random example.

```python
random_id = 34

print("Stars:", amazon_review["train"][random_id]["stars"])
print("Review:", amazon_review["train"][random_id]["review_body"])
```

**Output:**
```
    Stars: 1
    Review: This product caused severe burning of my skin. I have used other brands with no problems
```

The dataset is in a human-readable format, but now we need to transform it into a "machine-readable" format. Let's define the model repository which includes all utils necessary to preprocess and fine-tune the checkpoint we decided on.

```python
model_repository = "microsoft/deberta-v3-base"
```

Next, we load the tokenizer of the model repository, which is a [DeBERTa's Tokenizer](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/deberta-v2#transformers.DebertaV2Tokenizer).

```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer

> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_repository)

Reviewer: at this point in time, the fast tokenizer is only available when installing transformers from github.

I'm not sure if this is worth mentioning

    <td>0.609200</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>35000</td>
    <td>0.826800</td>
    <td>0.907260</td>
    <td>0.616200</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>40000</td>
    <td>0.820500</td>
    <td>0.904160</td>
    <td>0.615800</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>45000</td>
    <td>0.795000</td>
    <td>0.918947</td>
    <td>0.616800</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>50000</td>
    <td>0.783600</td>
    <td>0.907572</td>
    <td>0.618400</td>
  </tr>
  </tbody>
</table><p>
</div>

**Output:**
```
    ***** Running Evaluation *****
      Num examples = 5000
      Batch size = 8
    Saving model checkpoint to deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000
    Configuration saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000/config.json
    Model weights saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000/pytorch_model.bin
    tokenizer config file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000/tokenizer_config.json
    Special tokens file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000/special_tokens_map.json
    added tokens file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000/added_tokens.json

    Training completed. Do not forget to share your model on huggingface.co/models =)
```

> Cool, we see that the model seems to learn something! Training loss and validation loss is going down and the accuracy also ends up being well over random chance (20%). Interestingly, we see accuracy of around **58.6 %** already after 5000 steps which doesn't improve that much anymore afterward. Choosing a bigger model or training for longer would have probably given better results here, but that's good enough for our hypothetical use case!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cool, we see that the model seems to learn something! Training loss and validation loss are going down and the accuracy also ends up being well over random chance (20%). Interestingly, we see an accuracy of around **58.6 %** after only 5000 steps which doesn't improve that much anymore afterward. Choosing a bigger model or training for longer would have probably given better results here, but that's good enough for our hypothetical use case!
```

![example.png](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/patrickvonplaten/scientific_images/master/classification_widget.png)

It does seem to generalize quite well to real-world data 🔥

## Optimization

As soon as you think the model's performance is good enough for production it's all about making the model as memory efficient and fast as possible.

There are some obvious solutions to this like choosing the best suited accelerated hardware, *e.g.* better GPUs, making sure no gradients are computed during the forward pass, or lowering the precision, *e.g.* to float16.

More advanced optimization methods include using open-source accelerator libraries such as [ONNX Runtime](https://onnxruntime.ai/index.html), [quantization](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/quantization.html), and inference servers like [Triton](https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-triton-inference-server).

At Hugging Face, we have been working a lot to facilitate the optimization of models, especially with our open-source [Optimum library](https://huggingface.co/hardware). Optimum makes it extremely simple to optimize most 🤗 Transformers models.

> If you're looking for **highly optimized** solutions which don't require any technical knowledge, you might be interested in one of Hugging Face's paid inference services:

Reviewer: Could also do a plug for EAP.

"If you are looking for support for your custom use cases, Hugging Face's team of experts can help accelerate your ML projects!"

Reviewer 2: @nbroad1881 I think this is a great idea. @patrickvonplaten if you are ok with this suggestion, I can commit this change.

---
title: "Supercharged Customer Service with Hugging Face"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/61_supercharged_customer_service_with_nlp/thumbnail.png
---

<h1>
  	Supercharged Customer Service with Hugging Face
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published April 25, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/supercharge-customer-service-with-nlp.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/patrickvonplaten">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1584435275418-5dfcb1aada6d0311fd3d5448.jpeg?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>patrickvonplaten</code>
            <span class="fullname">Patrick von Platen</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

> <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/patrickvonplaten/notebooks/blob/master/Using_%F0%9F%A4%97_Transformers_and_%F0%9F%A4%97_Datasets_filter_customer_feedback_filtering.ipynb">

Author: Need to move quite a bit of notebooks there. Can do this as a follow-up !

> <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/patrickvonplaten/notebooks/blob/master/Using_%F0%9F%A4%97_Transformers_and_%F0%9F%A4%97_Datasets_filter_customer_feedback_filtering.ipynb">

Reviewer 3: SG!

A clear definition of the use case helps in identifying the most suitable task, dataset to use, and model to apply for your use case.

## **Define your NLP task**

Alright, let's dive into a hypothetical problem we wish to save using models of natural language processing. Let's assume, we are selling a product and our customer support team receives thousands of messages including feedback, complaints, and questions which ideally should all be answered.

Quickly, it becomes obvious though that customer support is by no means able to reply to every message. Thus, we decide to only reply
to the most unsatisfied custmoers and set the goal of replying to 100% of very unsatisfied messages.

Assuming that a) messages of very unsatisfied customers represent only a fraction of all messages and b) that we can filter out unsatisfied messages in an automated way, customer support should be able to reach this goal.

To filter out unsatisfied messages in an automated way, we plan on applying natural language processing technologies.

The first step is now to map our use case - *filtering out unsatisfied messages* - to a natural language processing task.

> To do so, it is recommended to go over all available tasks on the Hugging Face Hub [here](https://huggingface.co/tasks). If you are not sure which task applies to your use case, you should click on all of the different tasks to better understand them, *e.g.*

Author: ```suggestion
To do so, it is recommended to go over all available tasks on the Hugging Face Hub [here](https://huggingface.co/tasks). If you are not sure which task applies to your use case, you should click on all of the different tasks to better understand them.
```

Most likely, you will have to fine-tune a pretrained model for your use case, but it is worth checking whether they are already fine-tuned models on the Hub that perform well. In this case, you might reach a higher performance by just continuing to fine-tune such a model on your dataset.

Let's take a look at all models that have been fine-tuned on Amazon Reviews Multi, you can find the list of models on the bottom right corner - clicking on *Browse models trained on this dataset* you can see [a list of all models fine-tuned on the dataset that are publicly available](https://huggingface.co/models?dataset=dataset:amazon_reviews_multi). Note that we are only interested in the English version of the dataset because our customer feedback will only be in English. It looks like most of the most downloaded models are trained on the multi-lingual version of the dataset and those that don't seem to be multi-lingual have very little information or poor performance. At this point,
it might be more sensible to fine-tune a purely pretrained model instead of using one of the already fine-tuned ones shown in the link above.

> Alright, the next step now is to find a suitable pretrained model to be used for fine-tuning. This is actually more difficult than it seems given the large amount of pretrained and fine-tuned models that are the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/models) . The best option is usually to simply try out a variety of different models to see which one performs best.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Alright, the next step now is to find a suitable pretrained model to be used for fine-tuning. This is actually more difficult than it seems given the large amount of pretrained and fine-tuned models that are on the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/models). The best option is usually to simply try out a variety of different models to see which one performs best.
```

Similarly, it doesn't necessarily mean that the most downloaded model checkpoint is the best one. E.g. [`bert-base-cased`](https://huggingface.co/bert-base-uncased) is amongst the most downloaded model checkpoints but is not the best performing checkpoint anymore.

The best is often to try out a variety of different model architectures, stay up to date with new model architectures by following experts in the field and checking well-known leaderboards.

For text-classification, the important benchmarks to look at are [GLUE](https://gluebenchmark.com/leaderboard) and [SuperGLUE](https://super.gluebenchmark.com/leaderboard). Both benchmarks evaluate pretrained models on a variety of text-classification tasks, such as grammatical correctness, natural language inference, Yes/No question answering, etc..., which are quite similar to our target task of sentiment analysis. Thus, it is reasonable to choose one of the leading models of these benchmarks for our task.

At the time of writing this notebook, the best performing models are very large models containing more than 10 billion parameters most of which are not open-sourced, *e.g.* *ST-MoE-32B*, *Turing NLR v5*, or

> *ERNIE 3.0*. One of the top-ranking models that is easily accessible is [DeBERTa](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/deberta). Because Let's try out DeBERTa's newest base version - *i.e.* [`microsoft/deberta-v3-base`](https://huggingface.co/microsoft/deberta-v3-base).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
*ERNIE 3.0*. One of the top-ranking models that is easily accessible is [DeBERTa](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/deberta). Therefore, let's try out DeBERTa's newest base version - *i.e.* [`microsoft/deberta-v3-base`](https://huggingface.co/microsoft/deberta-v3-base).
```

# **Training / Fine-tuning a model with 🤗 Transformers and 🤗 Datasets**

In this section, we will jump into the technical details of how to
fine-tune a model end-to-end to be able to automatically filter out very unsatisfied customer feedback messages.

Cool, let's start by installing all necessary pip packages and by setting up our code environment, then look into preprocessing the dataset and finally start training the model.

The following notebook can be run online in a google colab pro with the GPU runtime environment enabled.

## **Install all necessary packages**

To begin with, let's install [`git-lfs`](https://git-lfs.github.com/) so that we can automatically upload our trained checkpoints to the Hub during training.

```bash
apt install git-lfs
```

> Also, we install the 🤗 Transformers and 🤗 Datasets libraries to run this notebook. Since we will be using [DeBERTa](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/deberta-v2#debertav2) in this notebook, we also need to install the [`sentencepiece`](https://github.com/google/sentencepiece) library for its tokenizer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Also, we install the 🤗 Transformers and 🤗 Datasets libraries to run this notebook. Since we will be using [DeBERTa](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/deberta-v2#debertav2) in this blog post, we also need to install the [`sentencepiece`](https://github.com/google/sentencepiece) library for its tokenizer.
```

        })
    })
```

We have 200,000 training examples as well as 5000 validation and test examples. This sounds reasonable for training! We're only really interested in the input being the `"review_body"` column and the target being the `"starts"` column.

Let's check out a random example.

```python
random_id = 34

print("Stars:", amazon_review["train"][random_id]["stars"])
print("Review:", amazon_review["train"][random_id]["review_body"])
```

**Output:**
```
    Stars: 1
    Review: This product caused severe burning of my skin. I have used other brands with no problems
```

The dataset is in a human-readable format, but now we need to transform it into a "machine-readable" format. Let's define the model repository which includes all utils necessary to preprocess and fine-tune the checkpoint we decided on.

```python
model_repository = "microsoft/deberta-v3-base"
```

Next, we load the tokenizer of the model repository, which is a [DeBERTa's Tokenizer](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/deberta-v2#transformers.DebertaV2Tokenizer).

```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_repository)
```

> Special tokens have been added in the vocabulary, make sure the associated word embeddings are fine-tuned or trained.

Reviewer 3: I would not assume readers know what special tokens are

As mentioned before, we will use the `"review_body"` as the model's input and `"stars"` as the model's target. Next, we make use of the tokenizer to transform the input into a sequence of token ids that can be understood by the model. The tokenizer does exactly this and can also help you to limit your input data to a certain length to not run into a memory issue. Here, we limit
the maximum length to 128 tokens which in the case of DeBERTa corresponds to roughly 100 words which in turn corresponds to *ca.* 5-7 sentences. Looking at the [dataset viewer](https://huggingface.co/datasets/amazon_reviews_multi/viewer/en/test) again, we can see that this covers pretty much all training examples.
**Important**: This doesn't mean that our model cannot handle longer input sequences, it just means that we use a maximum length of 128 for training since it covers 99% of our training and we don't want to waste memory. Transformer models have shown to be very good at generalizing to longer sequences after training.

> If you want to learn more about tokenization in general, please have a look at [the Tokenizers docs](https://huggingface.co/course/chapter6/1?fw=pt).

Reviewer 3: The link is to a course chapter, not the tokenizers docs

Author: It's prob the bets explanation of how tokenizers work that we have

The labels are easy to transform as they already correspond to numbers in their raw form, *i.e.* the range from 1 to 5. Here we just shift the labels into the range 0 to 4 since indexes usually start at 0.

Great, let's pour our thoughts into some code. We will define a `preprocess_function` that we'll apply to each data sample.

```python
def preprocess_function(example):
    output_dict = tokenizer(example["review_body"], max_length=128, truncation=True)
    output_dict["labels"] = [e - 1 for e in example["stars"]]
    return output_dict
```

> To apply this function to all data samples in our dataset, we just use the [`map`](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/master/en/package_reference/main_classes#datasets.Dataset.map) method of the `amazon_review` object we created earlier. This will apply the function on all the elements of all the splits in `amazon_review`, so our training, validation, and testing data will be preprocessed in one single command. We run the mapping function in `batched=True` mode to speed up the process and also remove all columns since we don't need them anymore for training.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To apply this function to all data samples in our dataset, we use the [`map`](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/master/en/package_reference/main_classes#datasets.Dataset.map) method of the `amazon_review` object we created earlier. This will apply the function on all the elements of all the splits in `amazon_review`, so our training, validation, and testing data will be preprocessed in one single command. We run the mapping function in `batched=True` mode to speed up the process and also remove all columns since we don't need them anymore for training.
```

```python
tokenized_datasets = amazon_review.map(preprocess_function, batched=True, remove_columns=amazon_review["train"].column_names)
```

Let's take a look at the new structure.

```python
tokenized_datasets
```

**Output:**
```
    DatasetDict({
        train: Dataset({
            features: ['input_ids', 'token_type_ids', 'attention_mask', 'labels'],
            num_rows: 200000
        })
        validation: Dataset({
            features: ['input_ids', 'token_type_ids', 'attention_mask', 'labels'],
            num_rows: 5000
        })
        test: Dataset({
            features: ['input_ids', 'token_type_ids', 'attention_mask', 'labels'],
            num_rows: 5000
        })
    })
```

We can see that the outer layer of the structure stayed the same but the naming of the columns has changed.
Let's take a look at the same random example we looked at previously only that it's preprocessed now.

```python
print("Input IDS:", tokenized_datasets["train"][random_id]["input_ids"])
print("Labels:", tokenized_datasets["train"][random_id]["labels"])
```

**Output:**
```

>     Input IDS: [1, 329, 714, 2044, 3567, 5127, 265, 312, 1158, 260, 273, 286, 427, 340, 3006, 275, 363, 947, 2]

Reviewer 3: Maybe if we show the tokens it would be useful for readers as well.

    Labels: 0
```

Alright, the input text is transformed into a sequence of integers which can be transformed to word embeddings by the model, and the label index is simply shifted by -1.

## **Fine-tune the model**

> Having preprocessed the dataset, next we can fine-tune the model. We will make use of the popular [Hugging Face Trainer](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/trainer) which allows us to start training in just a couple of lines of code. The Trainer can be used for more or less all tasks in PyTorch and is extremely convenient by taking care of a lot of boilerplate code needed for training.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Having preprocessed the dataset, next we can fine-tune the model. We will make use of the popular [Hugging Face Trainer](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/trainer) which allows us to start training in just a couple of lines of code. The `Trainer` can be used for more or less all tasks in PyTorch and is extremely convenient by taking care of a lot of boilerplate code needed for training.
```

      <th>Step</th>
      <th>Training Loss</th>
      <th>Validation Loss</th>
      <th>Accuracy</th>
 </tr>
 </thead>
<table><p>
  <tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>5000</td>
    <td>0.931200</td>
    <td>0.979602</td>
    <td>0.585600</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>10000</td>
    <td>0.931600</td>
    <td>0.933607</td>
    <td>0.597400</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>15000</td>
    <td>0.907600</td>
    <td>0.917062</td>
    <td>0.602600</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>20000</td>
    <td>0.902400</td>
    <td>0.919414</td>
    <td>0.604600</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>25000</td>
    <td>0.879400</td>
    <td>0.910928</td>
    <td>0.608400</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>30000</td>
    <td>0.806700</td>
    <td>0.933923</td>
    <td>0.609200</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>35000</td>
    <td>0.826800</td>
    <td>0.907260</td>
    <td>0.616200</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>40000</td>
    <td>0.820500</td>
    <td>0.904160</td>
    <td>0.615800</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>45000</td>
    <td>0.795000</td>
    <td>0.918947</td>
    <td>0.616800</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>50000</td>
    <td>0.783600</td>
    <td>0.907572</td>
    <td>0.618400</td>
  </tr>
  </tbody>
</table><p>
</div>

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

      Num examples = 5000
      Batch size = 8
    Saving model checkpoint to deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000
    Configuration saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000/config.json
    Model weights saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000/pytorch_model.bin
    tokenizer config file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000/tokenizer_config.json
    Special tokens file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000/special_tokens_map.json
    added tokens file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/checkpoint-50000/added_tokens.json

    Training completed. Do not forget to share your model on huggingface.co/models =)
```

Cool, we see that the model seems to learn something! Training loss and validation loss is going down and the accuracy also ends up being well over random chance (20%). Interestingly, we see accuracy of around **58.6 %** already after 5000 steps which doesn't improve that much anymore afterward. Choosing a bigger model or training for longer would have probably given better results here, but that's good enough for our hypothetical use case!

Alright, finally let's upload the model checkpoint to the Hub.

```python

> trainer.push_to_hub()

Reviewer 3: Maybe let's also mention you get the tensorboard tab with the training metrics

```

**Output:**
```
    Saving model checkpoint to deberta_amazon_reviews_v1
    Configuration saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/config.json
    Model weights saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/pytorch_model.bin
    tokenizer config file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/tokenizer_config.json
    Special tokens file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/special_tokens_map.json
    added tokens file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/added_tokens.json
    Several commits (2) will be pushed upstream.
    The progress bars may be unreliable.
```

## **Evaluate / Analyse the model**

> Now that we have fine-tuned the model we need to be very careful about analyzing its performance. It's usually not enough to just look at basic metrics defining the quality of a model purely on a metric, such as *accuracy*.

Reviewer 3: The "It's usually not enough to just look at basic metrics defining the quality of a model purely on a metric, such as *accuracy*." sounds a bit confusing to me

The better approach is to find a metric that best describes the actual use case of the model.

Let's dive into evaluating the model 🤿.

> The model has been uploaded to the Hub under [`deberta_v3_amazon_reviews`](https://huggingface.co/patrickvonplaten/deberta_v3_amazon_reviews) after training, so in a first step, let's download it from there again. If this notebook is run all at once the following cell will simply load the model from the cache.

Reviewer 3: Removing detail that I don't think is super important to this audience
```suggestion
The model has been uploaded to the Hub under [`deberta_v3_amazon_reviews`](https://huggingface.co/patrickvonplaten/deberta_v3_amazon_reviews) after training, so in a first step, let's download it from there again.
```

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification

model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("patrickvonplaten/deberta_v3_amazon_reviews")
```

The Trainer is not only an excellent class to train a model, but also to evaluate a model on a dataset. Let's instantiate the trainer with the same instances and functions as before, but this time there is no need to pass a training dataset.

```python
trainer = Trainer(
    args=training_args,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics,
    model=model,
    tokenizer=tokenizer,
    data_collator=data_collator,
)
```

> We use the Trainer's [`predict`]() function to evaluate the model on the test dataset on the same metric.

Reviewer 3: There is missing link for predict I think.

```python
prediction_metrics = trainer.predict(tokenized_datasets["test"]).metrics
prediction_metrics
```

**Output:**
```
    ***** Running Prediction *****
      Num examples = 5000
      Batch size = 8
```

**Output:**
```
    {'test_accuracy': 0.608,
     'test_loss': 0.9637690186500549,
     'test_runtime': 21.9574,
     'test_samples_per_second': 227.714,
     'test_steps_per_second': 28.464}
```

The results are very similar to performance on the validation dataset, which is usually a good sign as it shows that the model didn't overfit the test dataset.

However, 60% accuracy is far from being perfect on a 5-class classification problem, but do we need very high accuracy for all classes?

> Since we are mostly concerned with very negative customer feedback, let's maybe just focus on how well the model performs on classifying reviews of the most unsatisfied customers. Also, we decide to help the model a bit - all feedback classified as either **very unsatisfied** or **unsatisfied** will be handled by us - to catch close to 99% of the **very unsatisfied** messages. At the same time, we also measure how many **unsatisfied** messages we can answer this way and how much unnecessary work we do by answering messages of neutral, satisfied, and very satisfied customers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since we are mostly concerned with very negative customer feedback, let's just focus on how well the model performs on classifying reviews of the most unsatisfied customers. We also decide to help the model a bit - all feedback classified as either **very unsatisfied** or **unsatisfied** will be handled by us - to catch close to 99% of the **very unsatisfied** messages. At the same time, we also measure how many **unsatisfied** messages we can answer this way and how much unnecessary work we do by answering messages of neutral, satisfied, and very satisfied customers.
```

Great, let's write a new `compute_metrics` function.

```python
import numpy as np

def compute_metrics(pred):
    pred_logits = pred.predictions
    pred_classes = np.argmax(pred_logits, axis=-1)
    labels = np.asarray(pred.label_ids)

    # First let's compute % of very unsatisfied messages we can catch
    very_unsatisfied_label_idx = (labels == 0)
    very_unsatisfied_pred = pred_classes[very_unsatisfied_label_idx]

>     # now both 0 and 1 labels are 0 labels the rest is > 0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Now both 0 and 1 labels are 0 labels the rest is > 0
```

    very_unsatisfied_pred = very_unsatisfied_pred * (very_unsatisfied_pred - 1)
    
    # Let's count how many labels are 0 -> that's the "very unsatisfied"-accuracy
    true_positives = sum(very_unsatisfied_pred == 0) / len(very_unsatisfied_pred)

    # Second let's compute how many satisfied messages we unnecessarily reply to
    satisfied_label_idx = (labels > 1)
    satisfied_pred = pred_classes[satisfied_label_idx]

    # how many predictions are labeled as unsatisfied over all satisfied messages?
    false_positives = sum(satisfied_pred <= 1) / len(satisfied_pred)

    return {"%_unsatisfied_replied": round(true_positives, 2), "%_satisfied_incorrectly_labels": round(false_positives, 2)}
```

> We again instantiate the Trainer to easily run the evaluation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We again instantiate the `Trainer` to easily run the evaluation.
```

```python
trainer = Trainer(
    args=training_args,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics,
    model=model,
    tokenizer=tokenizer,
    data_collator=data_collator,
)
```

And let's run the evaluation again with our new metric computation which is better suited for our use case.

```python
prediction_metrics = trainer.predict(tokenized_datasets["test"]).metrics
prediction_metrics
```

**Output:**
```
    ***** Running Prediction *****
      Num examples = 5000
      Batch size = 8
```

**Output:**
```
    {'test_%_satisfied_incorrectly_labels': 0.11733333333333333,
     'test_%_unsatisfied_replied': 0.949,
     'test_loss': 0.9637690186500549,
     'test_runtime': 22.8964,
     'test_samples_per_second': 218.375,
     'test_steps_per_second': 27.297}
```

Cool! This already paints a pretty nice picture. We catch around 95% of **very unsatisfied** customers automatically at a cost of wasting our efforts on 10% of satisfied messages.

> Let's do some quick math. We receive daily around 10,000 messages for which we expect ca. 500 to be very negative. Instead of having to answer to all 10,000 messages, using this automatic filtering, we would only need to look into 500 + 0.12 \* 10,000 = 1700 messages and only reply to 475 messages while incorrectly missing 5% of the messages. Pretty nice - a 83% reduction in human effort at missing only 5% of very unsatisfied customers!

Reviewer 4: Good explanation!

Obviously, the numbers don't represent the gained value of an actual use case, but we could come close to it with enough high-quality training data of your real-world example!

Let's save the results

```python
trainer.save_metrics("prediction", prediction_metrics)
```

and again upload everything on the Hub.

```python
trainer.push_to_hub()
```

**Output:**
```
    Saving model checkpoint to deberta_amazon_reviews_v1
    Configuration saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/config.json
    Model weights saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/pytorch_model.bin
    tokenizer config file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/tokenizer_config.json
    Special tokens file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/special_tokens_map.json
    added tokens file saved in deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/added_tokens.json
    To https://huggingface.co/patrickvonplaten/deberta_amazon_reviews_v1
       599b891..ad77e6d  main -> main

    Dropping the following result as it does not have all the necessary fields:
    {'task': {'name': 'Text Classification', 'type': 'text-classification'}}
    To https://huggingface.co/patrickvonplaten/deberta_amazon_reviews_v1
       ad77e6d..13e5ddd  main -> main
```

> The data is now saved [here](https://huggingface.co/patrickvonplaten/deberta_amazon_reviews_v1/blob/main/prediction_results.json).

Reviewer 3: Would be cool if we get the metrics in the `model-index` too.

## Optimization

As soon as you think the model's performance is good enough for production it's all about making the model as memory efficient and fast as possible.

There are some obvious solutions to this like choosing the best suited accelerated hardware, *e.g.* better GPUs, making sure no gradients are computed during the forward pass, or lowering the precision, *e.g.* to float16.

More advanced optimization methods include using open-source accelerator libraries such as [ONNX Runtime](https://onnxruntime.ai/index.html), [quantization](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/quantization.html), and inference servers like [Triton](https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-triton-inference-server).

At Hugging Face, we have been working a lot to facilitate the optimization of models, especially with our open-source [Optimum library](https://huggingface.co/hardware). Optimum makes it extremely simple to optimize most 🤗 Transformers models.

If you're looking for **highly optimized** solutions which don't require any technical knowledge, you might be interested in one of Hugging Face's paid inference services:

-   [Inference API](https://huggingface.co/inference-api)

> -   [Infinity](https://huggingface.co/infinity)

Reviewer 4: As we killed this product, I would not advertise it in this blog post and the future ones
